- [Instructor] Now that the image has been built,
we're going to launch a container using that image.
Let's copy the command here,
and we'll go to our terminal, and
paste this command over there.
Docker container run is the command that
tells Docker engine to run the container.
Dash p is an option that maps a container port
to a specific port on the host,
and arungupta slash greeting is of course, our image name.
So, lets run this command.
And now, our Java application that we built earlier,
that we ran earlier using Maven is showing a similar log,
but run as a Docker image.
I can go to my other terminal here,
and I can give the command to access the application again,
and I get the same response back.
Now, the cool thing here is we're
getting the exact same output,
but this time from the Docker container,
that we just launched, built out
of the image from our Java application.
Let's take a look at what containers
are running on our machine.
And I can make the window bigger here
to give you a better output.
So, now you can see there
is arungupta slash greeting image is being used.
Here's my container id.
Here's the command that was used to run the container,
and it was started about a minute ago.
And then, you can also see in terms of the ports,
I have port 5005, which is not being
exposed at this point of time.
I'm only exposing port 8080 on the container
to 8080 on the host, and that's how we
were able to access the application, okay.
So, we're going to copy this container id,
and we can stop the container using this id.
And it can see the container has been
stopped in my other window here.
Now, if I take a look at the list of containers,
the container is not running anymore.
I can also say Docker container ls dash a.
It says container is not running.
It's a dead container, but we need to remove it.
So, the next step is Docker container rm,
same container id, and remove the container.
And now, when I say Docker container ls all,
the container no longer exists as well.
Let's take a look at a different variation
of this command now.
We're going to use the exact same command,
but this time, we're going to run the container
in a detached mode using dash d switch
or in the background mode.
Now, we can see the console returned back to us
and it gave us a long container id.
We can copy this container id here,
and we can say Docker container logs,
and give the command here to see the exact same logs,
which were displayed earlier to us in the console.
Let's access our application again here.
I'm going to copy this command that we used earlier.
Access the application, and
get the exact same response back.
Once again, the container is running now in a detached mode,
but we're getting the exact same response back
from our Java application running as a container over there.
Now, in this case, we can terminate the container.
Let's take a look at our container listing again.
That is my container id.
The one that we used earlier was a longer container id.
There's a shorter container id as well.
Let's copy it, and now,
I can easily terminate the container,
and remove the container in one command.
Docker container rm dash f, and give the container id.
And in one command, I have stopped
and removed the container.